10

~fected, consisted of a number of
15-

20

25

30

=

slldmg frames J, J, and L, I, and has on it
four pinions equal in 51ze, which take into
four racks, one on the under side of each of
the side pieces.of the two sliding frames, and
by turning this shaft - by - means of the
winch O, or otherwise, it is manifest that
the two sliding frames will be simultane-
ously ad]usted as may be desired. This
mode of adjustment as arranged and applied
to my planing machlne, constitutes my third
claim to improvement. -

In my machine as originally patented,
the cutters by which the planing was ef-
irons,
usually sixteen, affixed in slots, on the pe-
riphery of the revolving horizontal planing
wheel, the edges of these cutters being car-
ried, so-as to operate like gages in turning,
as described in the specification thereof, My
improvement in this part consists in the em-
ployment of a smaller number of irons,
usually three, of greater width, so as to ex-
tend from the periphery of the wheel, or

“from the ends of arms which may be substi-

tuted for a wheel, to the shaft which car-
ries it. The forward arm or part of the

wheel, forming the throat to the iron, not
being extended as far out as the part form-
ing the bed piece to the iron; allows the
outer erid of the iron to spall off all that is
above the desired thickness to be planed off.
These wide irons, which are held and ad-
justed by suitable screws, are shown at N, N,

 

557

N, attached to three arms. - These irons are

not- placed In the direction of radii‘to the :

wheel, but stand in relation'thereto in the
manner of skew irons-in rabbet and other
planes. ~They are not curved at their ex-
tremities, but have straight: cutting edges;
and  their distinguishing  chardeteristic is
their being so set “that they shall cut under
the surface of the plank, without coming
into contact. with the fibrous surface left
by the saw and the gritty matter always
entangled therein. As the shaft of the
planing wheel is not vertical, but has an in-
clination toward the plank, the edges of the
irons, or cutters, will first enter that edge
of the plank which is toward- the slntt

_cutting toward the center, and obviating all

danger of ‘spalling, and the iron’ will not
begin cutting at the off edge until it is
about returmnrr toward the center, and, of
course, it cannot produce spalling there.
I claim as my. fourth improvement—
The particular mode above described of
constructing and arranging the plane irons,

40

45

50

o
<

or cutters, so that they shall cut under the

surface of the stuff to be planed, they being
in all respects made and.arranged substan-
tially in the manner set forth.

JAMES MacGREGOR, Jr.

Witnesses:
Jorn W. HuBBArD,
LanTon THORN.

60

 
