T all whom it may concern.:

10

15

20

25

80

86

40

45

&0

668

 

 

. UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.

. JAMES MacGREGOR, JR., OF WILTON, NEW YORK.

PLANING-MACHINE.

Specifidation of Letters Patent No. 557, dated January 9, 1838.

Be it known that I, Jayms MAcGRrEGOR, JT.,
of Wilton, in the county of Saratoga, in the
State of New York, have made certain Im-
provements in Machines for Plaining, Joint-
ing, Tonguing, and Grooving Boards, for

which Letters Patent of the United Statés

were granted unto me under date of the 28th
~day of August, 1833; and I do hereby de-
clare that the following is a full and exact
gescription of the improvements now made
y
ters Patent of the United States.
My machine does not vary in its general

construction and mode of operation from:

that above alluded to, and it will not, there-
fore, be necessary

only to particularize those things which
constitute my improvements thereon.

Figure 1 in the accompanying drawing

gives a front, and Fig. 2, a top view of the
improved machine, and where the same parts

are represented they are designated by the

same letters of reference in each of the
figures.

In my original machine the board, or
plank was jointed on both edges by two cir-
cular saws set upon shafts nearly opposite
to each other, this jointing having been the
first operation performed by the machine as
the board entered it to be jointed, tongued,
and grooved. : '

In my improved machine, after placing
the plank upon the bed of the machine and
conveying it forward by means of the end-
less chain A, A, as formerly, it first comes
in contact with the jointing saw B, which
joints one edge of it by cutting a strip there-
from, which strip is carried off as hereto-
fore.  As it advances the plank next comes
into contact with the tonguing saws C, C,
which operate upon the jointed edge, while
the second jointing saw D, which stands
opposite to the tonguing saws C, C, joints
the opposite edge. By this arrangement I
have removed a difficulty experienced in the
o0ld machine in which the plank was jointed
at the same time on both edges, by two saws
as before noticed, and was subsequently
made to encounter the tonguing and groov-
ing saws acting opposite to each other; it
however, was found impossible to prevent
those slight deviations in the apparatus
which would affect the regularity of the

me and for which T desire to obtain Let-

v for me to describe it.
minutely in the present specification, but

 

tongue and groove and consequently the
matching of the plank. R

The first improvement which T claim con-
sists in the foregoing new arrangement of:

 the jointing and tonguing saws; namely, in’

the first jointing of one edge by a circular
saw upon the first saw shaft, and the sub-
sequent jointing of the opposite édge while
the tonguing of the first jointed, is at the
same time effected at 4 point opposite, or
nearly opposite to the second jointing saw,
as herein described.  The plank 4s 1t pro-
ceeds forward is borng up against the gage

60

85

strip E,.on the front of the bed, by the mov-

able gages F, F, as formerly, but to carry
off the strip cut by the second jointing saw,
I have added the guide strip or gage, G,
which is armed with a thin elastic plate of
iron at that end of it which is toward the

‘| Kerf it -enters, and effectually removes the

strip out of the way, and prevents its in-

“terfering with the grooving saws H, as it

sometimes did under the 6ld arrangement.

The end of the elastic strip of iron is
confined on to the frame of this second
jointing saw, so that when the saw is shifted
the strip moves with it, and is thus always
opposite to the left. S

My second claim to.improvement is to the
employment of the gage strip I, in the man-
ner, and for the purpose set forth.

The grooving saws I; are constructed and
operate as in the original machine, and are

in’ like manner supported- upon a sliding

frame J, J, by which they may be adjusted
precisely to the width of the stuff to be
grooved. The stuff after being tongued and
grooved passes on between the stationary

gage strip E, and the opposite cheek or strip

K, K, which makes part of the sliding frame
L, L; the strip E having a groove on it
which receives the tongue of the plank, and
the strip K, a tongue which in like man-
ner enters the groove of the plank, as in the
original machine; the plank is thus firmly

70

75

80 -

856

90

95

100 -

held between these tongued and grooved

strips, while it is acted upon by the revolv-
ing planes. As the sliding frame which
carries the grooving saws I, and that carry-

ing the tongued strip K, require to be

brought up simultaneously, and equally
against the plank which is to be grooved
and planed, T have devised a new and im-
proved mode of effecting this object.

- M, M, is a shaft which passes under the

105

110 .
