UNITED STATES Patent OFFICE.

A. D. DITMARS, OF CHESTER COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA.

MODE OF PRESERVING HAY, &oc.

Specification forming part of Letters Patent No. 599, dated February 15, 1838,

To all whom it may concern :

Be it known that I, A. D. Ditmars, for-
merly of Queens county, in the State of New
York, now in Chester county, in the State of
Pennsylvania, have invented or discovered a
new and Improved Method of Preserving Grass
for Hay; and I do hereby declare that the fol-
lowing is a full and exact description.

The nature of my invention or discovery con-
sists simply in excluding the grass from the
air or the air from the grass. The manner in
which it is done is simply this: The grass is cut
when it is not wet with either dew or rain and
packed immediately in rooms or “banters”
prepared for it. The banters are prepared in
the following manner: If it be a frame barn,
three sides of the banter are ready for the
sheet-lead without any further preparation.
The other three are prepared by putting a floor
in the bottom, a board partition at the side,and
a lid on the top, to be raised up and down, as may
be necessary, with a rope over a wheel or pul-
ley. The sheet-lead is then put on, so as to ex-
clude the air, by lapping the sheets and uniting
them where they lap with a hot iron. The
whole inside of the banter or room is thus cov-
ered with sheet-lead and painted to prevent
the lead from oxidizing. On the four sides of
the banter or room the sheet-lead is fastened
up by nailing it at the top to the boards. The
sheet-lead extends two or three inches above
the lid on the sides, and the sheets that cover
the under side of the lid extend over on the
top of the lid three or four inches all around
the lid. The only place through which the air
can now pass is between the edges of the lid
and the sides of the banter, which is prevented
by a strip of sheet-lead laid around over the
crack and united with a hot iron to the lead on
the sides of the banter and the lead on the top
of the lid, the lead on the sides of the banter
extending above the lid. It is now as air-
tight as lead can make it. If the barn be a
stone barn, the three sides of the banter are

prepared for the sheet-lead by plastering them
and putting a piece of board at the top to nail
the sheets of lead to. The other three sides are
prepared in the manner before described; or
a superstructure can be reared in the field
where the grass grows, and lined with sheet-
lead in the manner described, the lid serv-
ing the purpose of roof with a vent on one side
to carry the water off the building, being raised
a little on one side for the purpose. When the
place is thus prepared the grass being neither
wet with rain nor dew is cut down and packed
in. When packed full the lid is let down and
fastened up in the manner before described, and
thus kept till the weather has become cold, till
winter has set in, then opened and used, fed out
as hay commonly is. It is only calculated for
the cold season of the year and the cold climes of
the world. As far as it reaches it is attended
with the following advantages: It avoids the
loss of hay by showers and rains. It avoids
the anxiety of mind and mental anguish that
farmers feel with large crops of hay thus ex-
posed. It saves the expense of drying it in
the sun, which is heavy. It avoids the loss of
substance that attends drying it in the sun,
which is between two-thirds and three-fourths
of the whole amount. Red clover in drying to
hay loses more than three-fourths of its sub-
stance; timothy more than two-thirds. By
this process not a particle of substance is lost,
That much of the substance is lost must be
evident to everybody, because the animal that
will fatten upon the grass will get poor upon
the hay made of that grass.

What I claim as my invention or discovery,
and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is—

The preservation of grass for hay by exclud-
ing it from the air with sheet-lead.

A. D. DITMARS.
Witnesses:

MIFFLIN LEWIS,
JOHN B, IVESTER.

 

