UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.

WILLIAM HAWKINS AND WILLIAM C.CLARY. OF MILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN

IMPROVED SAWING-MILL.

Specification forming part of Letters Patent'No. 19,774, dated March 30, 1858; Reissuo No. 552; dated-
May 11, 1838.

To all whom it may_concern:
Be it known that we, WILLIAM HAWKINS
and WILLIAM C. CLARY, of Milwaukee, in
the county of Milwaukee aud State of Wis-
consin, have invented new and useful Improve-
- ments in Machines for Sawing Lumber; and
we do declare that the following is a full, clear,
and exact description of the construction and
operation of the same, reference being had to
the annexed drawings, and to the letters of
reference marked thereon, making a part of
this specification, in which—
Figure 1 is a perspective view. Fig.2 is a
top view. Fig. 3 is a side view; Figs. 4 4,
views of the double-acting lever; Figs. 5 and
6, views of the gearing aud ratchet connected
with the right and left hand screws.
In Figs. 2 and 3, A indicates the main
frame to which all the working parts are at-
tached. In Fig. 2, M marks the main belt,
which rotates the saw-shaft E and gives the
required power to cross-belt x and open belt
y, by connections of the intermediate belts and
shafts, V I W O, moving the log-carriage B
both ways. The cross-belt x being on the tight
pulley the log-carriage B moves in direction
(see arrow, Fig. 2) until the log passes the saw,
when the arm R comes in contact with the set-
block T and turns up the segment of a gear,
J, which by its connections rotates the screws
G G and sets the log to the saw. The pin p
in the carriage B now moves the slide K,
which turns the double-acting lever D, which,
by its connections, sets the saw S oblique to
the parallel line of the carriage the other way,
and the wedge-roller P'' is thrown out of the
way, and wedge-roller P'' is thrown up. The
belt-shipper l being connected to the lever D,
the cross-belt x is thrown on the loose pulley,
and open belt y on the tight pulley moves the
carriage B in the opposite direction and goes
through the same operation before described.
The saw-shaft E, Fig. 2, is hung in frame F
being held down by bolts a a a a in slots in
frame F under bolt-heads, and swings on a
pivot under bearing,f, at the outside end of
frame F. The frame D, being connected, by
levers d d d, to double-acting lever D,is moved
so as to set the saw oblique and alternately to
the parallel line of the carriage, so that the
saw opposite the cutting-edge is clear of the

log when cutting in either direction. Instead
of changing the direction of the saw, the line
of the carriage may De changed by equivalent
means to those here set forth for changing the
saw. The advantage of these hmprovements
is, that a saw may be used that is thick in its
center and thin on its cutting-edge, and not
require set to the extent of its center thick-
ness, thereby using a stiffer saw, cutting less
saw-kerf, aud using less power.
  P, Fig. 2, is a lever which vibrates at its
center h. On each end of this lever there are
wedge-rollers P' P'', Figs. 2 and 3; or wedges
may be attached to ends of lever P in place
of wedge-rollers, to keep the board clear of
saw S, aud are changed alternately by arm
L, which arm L is moved by pins C C; or it
may be connected and worked by double-act-
ing lever D.
  W W, Fig. 2, are stationary guides made
fast to main frame A.
  W' W', Fig. 2, are swing-guides attached
to frame A, said swing-guides being held to
the saw by pins e e in saw-frame F and op-
erating in connection with the stationary
guides to guide the saw.
  The screws G G are right and left handed,
which arve connected to head-block C, which
holds the log by dogs S S on the screws G G.
  i i are geared pinious.
  b b are ratchet-plates.
  g g ave ratchet-wheels.
  G' G' are bevel-gears.
  The pinions i i and ratchet-plates b b be-
ing loose, the ratchet-wheels g g and bevel-
gears G’ G' are made fast. The ratchet-plates
b, Figs. 5 and 6, operate on ratchet-wheel g
by ratchets r r r, and pinion 4, Fig. 5, oper-
ates plate b by o o, which fif the holes made
in plate b when arm R, Fig. 3, comes in con-
tact with set-block T, and turns the segment
of a gear, J, which works in pinion i and ro-
tates screws G G, which are connected by
shaft N. The piovion i, plate.b, being loose
lets the segment of a gear, J, drop back to
its place, when the arm R leaves the set-
block T ready to set again. The segment of a
gear is changed by slide t'', to determine the
degree or extent of set intended to be given;
or arm R may be made to shift. The arm v
v, Fig. 2, on rods K K is connected to pinions.
