2 552

ii. On the other end of rods k are arms Z Z,
so that when the log is sawed up the nuts or
screws G G come in contact with arms Z Z,
and, movivg the rods K K and the arms v v,
disconnect the pinions i i from plates b b and
stops setting. The double-acting lever D,
Figs. 4 4, is made fast to the top of shaft m,
which works in bearings attached to frame
A. The lower end of shaft m is made fast to
plate t with notch n, to receive the latch g,
connected to the angle lever u. The anglo-
lever u swings on shaft m, and is connected
with link l'. The latch q, being raised ont of
notch n-and moved around, shifts the belts x
and y and stops the motion of the carriage B
without changing the position of double-acting
lever D.
  Having thus described the construction and
operation of our invention, what we claimn as
new, and desire to secure. by Latters Patent,
is—
  L. Changing the saw after each cut alter-
nately from an oblique position in one direc-
tion to an oblique position in a contrary direc-
tion to the line of the log-carriage Whlle cut-
ting in either direction by the movements of

the machine, and for the purposes herein set
forth.
  2. The gwing-guides W' W', in combination
with the stationary guides W W, for the pur-
pose of guiding the saw, as described.
  3. The two wedge-rollers or wedges P' and
P'', to keep the board clear of the saw while
cutting in either direction, as described.
  4. The combination of pinions i and their
pins o, entering into recesses of plates b, the
ratchet-wheels g, the ratchets r, the adjusta-
ble segments J, the wheels G', the screws G,
and the rods K with their clutches z and v,
for the purpose ' of setting the log to the saw
and stopping tho setting when the log-frame
advances too close to the saw.
  5. The notched plate t,in combination with
the latch g, lever u, and link l, for the pur-
pose of operating the belt-shifter l without
turning the lever D, substantially as set forth.
  Milwaukee, April 14, 1858.
    WILLIAM HAWKINS.
    WILLIAM O. CLARY.
  Witnesses:
    ALBERT SMITH,
    FRANK A. SMITH.
